**Manuscript Formatting Checklist**

As you write your manuscript, please keep in mind these formatting
guidelines, as they depict the state in which your final manuscript
should be submitted. Making sure your manuscript adheres to these
guidelines as you work on the draft ensures not only a faster turnaround
in handing it over to Production and Marketing, but also saves you the
hassle of removing any problematic formatting ahead of submission.

Additionally, please keep in mind that your final submission should
include **all proposed chapters**, any **preliminary material**
(dedications, acknowledgements, table of contents *with chapter titles
and the first level of subtitles*, list of tables/figures, author
bio/photo, contributor notes if relevant, preface, foreword) and **end
matter** (references, glossary).

Finally, please keep in mind that ***no significant changes*** can be
made to the manuscript once you submit the final version for production.
It will be copyedited, and you will have a chance to respond to any
queries and make minor corrections, but the copyeditor will not be
content-editing; the submitted version is final.

**General Text Guidelines**

-   Documents are Microsoft Word (no PDF submissions)

-   Documents have 2.54 cm (1 inch) margins and are double-spaced

-   Times New Roman or Calibri, 12 point, unjustified font has been used

-   Headers and footers have been avoided

-   Endnote has been disengaged

-   Consistent referencing has been maintained throughout the manuscript

-   Different levels or types of headings are clearly and consistently
    differentiated

-   All agreed pedagogical features are in good shape and are applied
    and labelled consistently across all chapters

-   Spelling and terminology choices are consistent throughout the
    manuscript

-   Work from outside sources has been cited clearly and accurately and
    noted in a permissions log

**Artwork Guidelines**

-   All figures, tables, boxes, and other features must be labelled
    appropriately (\[Chapter Number\].\[Item Number\])

-   Figures, tables, and other artwork have been removed and placed in a
    separate document. '\[Insert Figure/Table Number\]' must be placed
    in the text to indicate where these features should be inserted
    during the typesetting process. All of these visual elements should
    also be titled, and these captions should appear in the separate
    document as well as in the text below the \[Insert\] box.

-   All figures, tables and boxes must be supplied along with the
    manuscript, even if it's a new edition.

-   Boxes should be signposted in the text with '\[start box\]' at the
    beginning of the box and '\[end box\]' at the end of the box. They
    should not contain any additional formatting (borders, shading,
    object palette features, etc.). If you have different types of boxes
    or unique learning features, you should label these differently to
    help the typesetter distinguish which type of feature that text box
    is.

-   Images and photographs must be high resolution (i.e. minimum 300
    dpi)

For an example of a well-style manuscript excerpt, please look at the
following few pages.

And yet, in the context of research, theory plays a vital role in
assisting us to formulate our research questions, highlighting what
might be pertinent aspects of the phenomena we are interested in. In our
interpretation of research data, theory points us towards identifying
factors or elements which are noteworthy or of significance. Theory
offers us ways of using language and defining terms so that we can
communicate with others holding a similar theoretical perspective. They
offer us signposts or frames for reflection and critical appraisal, and
importantly, may direct us towards seeking rival explanations or
understandings of the meaning or relevance of what we discover. In fact,
research may be driven by a wish to prove or demonstrate or refute a
particular theory, or even reveal understanding that enables us to
generate new theory.

Theory, put simply, is an organised set of concepts and ideas which can
play a number of roles in social work and social care research, either
as an 'input' or as an 'output'. Grbich (1999) describes research as
being either theory driven or generating (as per Glaser and Strauss
1967). See Figure 2.1.

\[Insert Figure 2.1\]

Figure 2.1: Theory Driven vs Generating Research

According to Grbich's (1999) perspective, research that is driven by
theory has, at its foundation, a clear theoretical framework, and a
knowledge base, which shapes the view of knowledge generated, the design
of the study, and the questions or hypotheses developed. So, as
researchers, we can examine a problem through a particular theoretical
lens. It shapes how we see, what we see and what we propose. This type
of research approach is much more likely to be conducted in an academic
setting.

\[start box\]

*Box 2.1: Title (if appropriate)*

An academic study with a theoretical framework: As an Honours student,
Catherine completed a small study which was a feminist investigation of
women's addiction to benzodiazapines. This study was conducted in the
1980s - a time when thinking about addiction was developing, as was
critique of dominant medical ideas. This research was in response to
these debates and sought to specifically utilise a feminist theoretical
framework, by examining the impact of social role expectations in
benzodiazapine dependence. A feminist critique of women's social roles
formed the lens through which the problem was defined and examined.

\[end box\]

\[start thought bubble\]

If you have a topic you are considering or working on now, are you aware
of any theoretical discussions/constructions of this?

\[end thought bubble\]

More recently a less deterministic approach to theory as an input has
been described: theory-oriented research. This approach is one which
begins intentionally with an overt theoretical or ideological viewpoint,
but the degree to which this orientation will influence the research
process varies, as you can see with the example of Alexis' study below.

\[start box\]

*Box 2.2: Title (if appropriate)*

Alexis, a student researcher, was preparing for a study of women's
experiences of hospital treatment after miscarriage. In her review of
previous research she found that this had typically relied on
quantitative data which 'hid' the voices of participants. In response,
she developed and utilised a feminist-informed methodology and sought to
gather qualitative data solely from women about their views and
experiences of their miscarriage treatment. In this case the theoretical
orientation shaped the development and implementation of the study, but
did not bring a theoretical analysis to the research focus or the
resulting data (see McLean & Flynn, 2013).

\[end box\]

We would describe this as theory which provides the scaffolding for the
research. To take the building analogy a step further, whilst
scaffolding is not central to the building itself, it is needed to do
the work, and has an impact on how the building (or in this case, the
research) takes place.

Research can also be theory generating; and to a degree, all of us are
engaged in this process -- developing concepts for broader application.
Perhaps the most influential and well known approach is ***grounded
theory***, first posed by Glaser and Strauss (1967), and then taken on
divergent paths by these researchers individually (and developed by
scholars such as Charmaz, 2006). From this general viewpoint, the
research journey begins from a point of 'not knowing', and endeavours to
enter the field relatively clear of preconceptions or expectations; with
the aim being to build theory upon fresh observations. Patton identifies
the foundational question of this approach as: 'What theory emerges from
systematic comparative analysis and is grounded in fieldwork so as to
explain what has been and is observed?' (2015:109). The focus,
therefore, is on constructing theory, not comparing to, or proving or
disproving existing theoretical constructs. A major criticism of this
type of approach suggests that without ongoing reflection, it can serve
to merely reaffirm the researcher's own biases and unacknowledged
assumptions.

**Social work theory: understanding social problems**

Social work has evolved a wide range of theories, many of them borrowed
from other social science disciplines because of their capacity to shed
light on and to strengthen understanding and practice. For example,
social constructionist theory has informed narrative interventions,
while strengths based practice relies on theories of human development
from biology and psychology. But social work's foundational perspective
of person-in-environment has proved vital to the profession's
development as well as useful to other disciplines.
Person-in-environment draws on systems theory in order to account for
the ways in which individual human lives both shape and are shaped by
social phenomena and social structures. In relation to social work
research, it directs our attention to research designs which incorporate
multiple methods to gather data at micro, meso and macro 'levels'.

Contemporary developments of systems theory have led to the emergence of
Complexity Theory (CT) which constitutes a new way of thinking about the
world, holding particular resonance for social work as well as other
areas of social practice. This is evident in the work of, for example
Byrne, 1998; Green & McDermott 2010; Pycroft & Bartolas 2014; McDermott
2014; Sanger & Giddings, 2012; Wolf-Branigin 2009). With regard to
social work, Wolf-Branigin (2009:124) has noted: '...(a)pplying
complexity is about developing our knowledge, skills, and ability to
understand the interconnectedness and exigencies present within our
clients' systems'. Complexity Theory is particularly valued by
researchers because it provides mental models and strategies for working
collaboratively and purposefully across disciplinary divides, and in
partnership with service users. Trans- or cross-disciplinary approaches
differ from multidisciplinary perspectives in that they propose the
transcending of traditional disciplinary boundaries in order to find new
and innovative solutions which integrate knowledge from the social,
natural and biological sciences (Choi & Pak, 2006; Leavy, 2012), as well
as that contributed by service users (Abma, Nierse & Widdeershoven,
2009; Truman & Raine, 2001). As Complexity Theory is an explanatory
theory, explaining the changing construction of different systems
identified and studied within the natural, biological and social
sciences disciplines, it is a theoretical perspective which holds
promise for providing a shared theoretical basis for social science and
trans-disciplinary research, with the potential to extend our
understanding of the world and the way it works (Green & McDermott,
2010).

**Ontology and Epistemology**

Central to what the researcher brings to the task is a perspective on or
understanding of the social world. As we noted above, social work and
many other social science-based professions recognise that human life is
embedded in and shaped by what we might think of as many 'spheres' of
reality, impacting at the micro, meso and macro 'levels'. The undoubted
complexity of the interactions of these human, social and natural
ecological systems, co-evolving and adapting whilst simultaneously
creating that context, challenges any researcher who 'dares' to study
it! Sometimes we know about these impacts, and sometimes we are unaware
of them, but whether or not we are aware of them they are influencing
all aspects of our lives, and in turn we are influencing them whether or
not we are aware of so doing.

So, we can start by asserting that as researchers we are aware that we
are working in a complex, multidimensional and always-interacting world.
But in order to study this world and the people in it, we need to decide
exactly *what* it is we are studying, and from this basis *how* we
propose to research it. This takes us on a brief excursion into ontology
and epistemology, which we introduced in Chapter 1.

***Ontology*** is the science of being, that is, the study of what it
means to *be.* In the social sciences in particular, researchers are for
the most part studying humans as social beings, asking all kinds of
questions about the nature of human experience and the ways in which
social reality influences, changes and mediates human life and
behaviour. Starting out to do research provides a somewhat rare
opportunity to think about what we consider characterises 'human being'.
One way to tease out our own understanding of this fundamental question
is to pose it. You might want to take a bit of time now to brainstorm a
response to this question

\[start thought bubble\]

What do you think are the defining characteristics of human beings?' or

What do you think it is to be human?

\[end thought bubble\]
